[Music]
how are you bet I'm tired
yeah yeah how come just a lot of stuff
going on behind the scenes that you can
talk about well I beat a lot of it's
right for the scenes you know it's a the
joke I always make that I probably made
to you before is I don't know sometimes
what we're doing until I read the patch
notes yeah because so many things are
happening i League of Legends all the
time and so there's just you know
there's hey what happened to clash
there's oh my god what do we do about
marksmen there's just a hundred little
fires - but not always
okay well I'm joined right now by a
great street also known as groves
crawler recently obtaining the
Ghostcrawler Twitter account back once
more thanks for joining me yeah happy to
be here yeah so you I have I've known
obviously of the work that you've done
all the way from back when you were on
Blizzard and and coming out there to
sort of put up a fence in on the forums
for the people who were frustrated but
now you're over it right and and I have
I know a lot that I think the only thing
I know really about you is that you had
like a marine biology degree and then
somehow ended up in video game design am
i correct that's correct yes yes so it's
just looking forward to getting to know
more about you wouldn't what what was
your path into game design so yeah I was
notion art or fur I have a PhD and
everything I was a real scientist for
about two years and I hated it the story
I'd like to tell is that in graduate
school I spent a lot of time out on
boats and in the water and you know
fishing and on the beach and it was
super cool I was dirt poor but it was a
lot of fun and then once I was a real
scientist I spent all of my time in
front of a computer like I was writing
grant proposals and then you know if you
actually ever got money to do research
they'd have to write up the papers and I
had graduate students that were I guess
going out in the field that I never got
to I sat in a room with no windows
looking at a computer screen and I
thought this is miserable and the my
colleagues were really good at being
scientists loved it like that was enough
to satisfy them and I almost felt like a
fraud that I didn't love it and I felt
like you know I need to get out of this
business because I'm not doing
I don't love it enough you know to be at
the caliber these people that just live
for this stuff so now you make games for
people who sit alone in a room looking
at a computer screen all day I mean I
figured if I was gonna be at a computer
all day long I might as well be playing
games were you playing games during all
that like in between you know writing
grant proposals were you sitting there
playing games yeah I mean I've been a
gamer all my life from like you know
Atari 2600 and monochromatic PC games
and arcades back in the day yeah so what
what happened for you between the time
when you you decided to switch off from
and also before we even get into that
what what was that moment like when did
you throw away the PhD and like hop onto
a game design situation I mean it's just
not a great job and I really admire the
people that can do it because the you
know you're fighting for funding and
this political climate almost be awful
trying to get funding for environmental
science there very few job opportunities
there probably six people in the world
that understood what I was doing you
know so it's really hard to be like yeah
I'm an oceanographer but I don't play
with dolphins let me tell you about DNA
and her practically copepods and all
this super esoteric stuff but you what
was the moment like where you switch
from that to because like you you decide
you want to get out of this yeah and
then you have to transition over this
thing that is jarring ly different yeah
what you're doing how do you convince
somebody to hire you did you start like
isn't like what was that path like for
you I got super lucky so at the time you
know this is 20 years ago yeah a lot of
games are made by a programmer who also
did all of the art and and you know
design was barely a thing at the time
and games were just kind of discovering
that they needed to specialize and have
people that did the programming and
people that did the art and then also
there were just people who would come up
with the player experience like they
would make the levels and they would
design the units or whatever it was and
you know I don't know how to code I'm
not a particularly talented artist that
was my Avenue in was to be a game
designer and so I reached out to a few
companies who had you know no interest
but there was this one company that I
read an interview with their lead
designer who said yeah we're always
looking to hire people with no
experience I'm like that's me I have no
experience what was that company
ensemble studios who made Age of Empires
remember I loved Age of Empires it's a
historical RTS and I'm a big history fan
so I love the fact that this game
included really weird civilizations like
the Hittites which no one had heard of
right so you ended up there what was
your first like what were you doing over
there I so they have you know it's a
multiplayer single-player game and they
needed someone to make the single-player
campaigns basically tell a story make
these maps where you would be putting
some type of remotely historical
situation and you know build up your
army and attack the AI they had no one
to do that and they they were running
out of time and they're like we need to
get someone who can build all this stuff
for us so they said if you ever made a
scenario for Age of Empires oh my god
yeah sure sure never never ad went to
the Internet and research like all the
tricks all the techniques how do you do
this what do players like made my own AI
script I figured that would be
impressive tried to wrap it a historical
rapper and they really liked the map and
they're like this is good
they actually shifted even they were so
desperate for content and you did they
because this is at an interesting time
because people are looking for as you
said like people are just sort of
figuring out like how to design stuff
how you make all this stuff work and
what was that interview like I mean did
you even mention like your previous work
and all they knew that may have helped
that I had like a PhD on my resume so
I'm sure they didn't get many of those
one of the guys I interviewed with his
name sandy Peterson who has done a lot
in the you know call a Cthulhu world
he's also worked on games like doom and
he studied arachnids in college I
studied crustaceans so he immediately
hit it off a really geeky standpoint and
that may have helped me get my foot in
the door but it really was just I talked
to a few people on the phone somehow
impressed them again it was super lucky
it wasn't that I stood head and
shoulders above their you know other
candidates could you do you think
somebody could do that now could in this
in this day and age with the game
industry being what it is could they
come in and say like I've got a PhD and
I made this mod hire me yeah absolutely
riot is weird that way and that we
really
pride ourselves on hiring we hire a lot
of designers right out of college kind
of we figured we've almost maxed out
what we can do and like finding people
at other companies who understand the
way we think and know League of Legends
so a lot of what we do now is try to get
designers but kind of before other
companies do by getting them young yeah
help me fill in the gap so you so you
worked on Age of Empires what what was
everything else before like what was
your path and before you got to Blizzard
and started you know people really knew
who you were
yes I did age empires for 10 years I
started I was the most junior designer
you can imagine I literally think my
desk was a folding card table in the
hallway made you know a bunch of
scenarios I also made the random maps
which was super fun like we had randomly
generated maps kind of like a
civilization even though was a you know
competitive multiplayer game and
gradually just worked my way up the
ranks I did a lot of the unit design and
balance for Age of Kings which was a you
know super successful game worked on Age
of Mythology and its expansions Age of
Empires 3 and its expansions and then
around that time ensemble was acquired
by our publisher which was Microsoft
which is super exciting at the time
after that I started to realize wow
Microsoft has really kind of started to
tell us a lot like what to do yeah I was
working on we did a bunch of our indie
games and I was working on one I fell in
love with which we was we described it
as like a space Diablo game at the time
there was nothing in that genre in a
science-fiction universe it was a
wonderful game I'd still stake my career
on it because it was such a great game
and Microsoft is like yeah we already
have a science fiction game in
development called Mass Effect's we
don't need to sci-fi games yeah I'm like
what the hell you have two racing games
you know but they didn't want to sci-fi
games and I got really worried that like
this is the future the company they're
just gonna want us to make Age of
Empires 16 and 17 at the time my friends
would not shut up about this new game
that came out called world of warcraft
and it got to the point where I would
not have dinner with them cuz I knew all
they were gonna do is talk about Wow and
they kept saying I'll just try it just
try it they finally got me to try it and
I'm like okay you're right I get it this
game is amazing I you know soon mein
tanking for
the like company guild and I would send
out emails every night about what we did
our accomplishments the whole company
and nobody really cared like street stop
spamming us with your exploits in molten
core I fell in love with the game enough
that when I started to worry about the
future of ensembl I just kind of cold
called Rob Pardo at Blizzard who I knew
barely and it just so happened I didn't
understand this too later but the plan
was that Jeff Kaplan was gonna move off
of Wow go make a new game and they
needed you know his lieutenant would
then take his spot and they needed in to
backfill to work on class design and so
my timing again was just really good and
I went over to Blizzard and within a
year Microsoft had shut ensemble Studios
down yeah so it was really a good good
timing yeah it's I mean so much of this
career is locked it's you like to think
that it's skilled and that the really
smart people get rewarded but look I'm
living proof that you could be pretty
incompetent and survive for a couple
decades with so you you end up on well
what was it like because you had these
Fred's who were like trying to convince
you to play Wow yeah they must have been
laughing whenever you're like okay now
I'm like one of the faces of the design
team yeah I like told them you know I
told them hey I'm going to Blizzard and
nobody was surprised that no one was mad
they're like of course you know you love
that game and then I was still like
plagued with these same players and they
knew that I was working on the game like
half the guild knew and have to go
biddin so it was really really funny
when they would like complain about you
know something goes crawler and said
that day on the forums then Here I am
and they're you know and their battle
with them what was it like switching
over to Blizzard because Blizzard this
legendary game company yeah I'm sure a
very different atmosphere than than
where you've been before it was so
different and ensemble one of the things
we did was iterate a ton like I would
have an idea on the way into work and
then we get there and we'd try it out
and play test it that day and I knew
Blizzard of this reputation of being
really iterative so as expecting it to
be pretty similar but what they do is
they think really really deeply about a
problem first and it was really easy for
them to shoot my stupid ideas down
before we bothered implementing it
saving a ton of time so the time they
get to the implementation stage there's
a pretty good chance the idea is good
and then they would just
in polish and polish on it it was just a
really different environment than I was
used to and what I've tried to bring
here as well
and Wow Wow for me like it's such a
definitive game for for my gaming life
yeah and and it's it was very unique for
its time right like the first game that
I can think of that did so many of these
these things that it accomplished what
was it like for you working on the
project was there a lot of stress so
many people playing this game right yeah
it was a lot of stress but you also feel
I don't know the Caplin always described
as an honor like you get to work on a
game that touches so many people's lives
and you feel you know you're really
grateful that you can do that this is
exactly the kind of experience I never
had in science because I was touching
nobody's life directly but here you know
you could make a change and that
afternoon millions of people would be
experiencing it or you could talk about
something and people be hanging on your
every word because not because they care
about you but because the game is so
important to them one of the things
that's interesting I think about folks
at game companies is you you go in
conference rooms you have these talks
you make the decision and it rolls out
you know that it's hitting a lot of
people but in a sense like you're so
detached from like that that person who
is playing somewhere are there moments
for you that you can remember or maybe a
single moment where you you realize like
sort of the effect that a game like wow
can have on a person like it may be a
story or a person that you met or
anything like that
there's a couple that stick in my mind
there was one a father who talked to me
at an event somewhere and he said he had
a teenage son that they were pretty
estranged and they barely spoke but the
son was really into wows the dad decided
to pick up Wow and they would talk to
each other in the game you know in chat
or whatever where they'd never talk in
real life and then it kind of got beyond
the point of just talking about the game
to like oh you know how was school today
and the kid would open up within Wow
which he couldn't do just over the
dinner table I know that's kind of a
sappy story but it really kind of struck
me that like they never would have
improved their relationship without the
game being there yeah and there's so
many stories of like oh I met my spouse
on wow I met my best friend on well
I you know I still have friends you know
on Facebook or whatever that I only
really know from the game and I have
friends like so many people these days
that I don't know what they look like or
even who they are where they live but
we're still friends in this weird way so
all these people having these wonderful
emotional moments and then immediately
going to the forums and complaining when
you nerf their class so I mean what
because you what when did you start to
become like the the face for all this
because I'm kind of I'm I'm thinking
back like I remember seeing the crab
show up on the forums and yeah and in
those kind of moments but when did you
was there like a conversation around it
where I was like we need someone to tank
all this hate or was it more subtle than
that
it was so at the time they've improved a
lot I don't want to give Blizzard shit
because they've gotten so much better at
it but at the time they had no you know
the communication from Blizzard was well
you'll read the patch notes and then
you'll know what we think and they
barely like went to conventions at the
time they wouldn't talk to players there
was very little in fact they kind of
viewed it as a distraction there was a
little because they were busy right like
I said yeah and they would assume that
like oh if you're spending time in the
forum's you're not spending time working
and maybe that's just a vocal minority
or whatever and again they've they've
improved a lot since then so I you know
I had to ask Kaplan and Chilton who were
my bosses like hey can I get a you know
a blue name to post to the forum because
they didn't just hand those out you had
to be pretty important the company to
get one and I remember Kaplan's kind of
like looked at Chilton and kind of
shrugged like yeah let's give it a shot
and within a few days they were like
talking about the number of blue posts
had just gone up by an order of
magnitude and Kaplan just like oh that's
Greg you know like it was all me just
out there talking and they really didn't
know how to handle it like I think the
design team and the WoW team in general
were always okay with it the community
team like didn't quite know what to do
with it because I was so prolific with
just answered questions talking to
players basically saying anything that
wasn't out right you know leaking
secrets or making commitments we
couldn't keep and they struggled a lot
with do we like this is this okay I was
really pushing at walls they weren't
super comfortable with at the time they
a couple different times they shut off
forum access they're just like we don't
want devs on the forums anymore it's too
much of a risk
and I think like I know a couple of
those times my reputation really took a
hit with players because all of a sudden
I stopped talking and they thought they
had chased me away or something like
that not knowing that kind of company
policy had changed and I couldn't really
throw the company under the bus but I
guess I'm doing it right now
but I mean it is a different time
because I think now game companies are
starting to realize the value of having
people out there but at that time like
communication was always like in game
companies I know from just talking to
people like it goes through all these
channels right like there's like an
approval process when there's anything
that goes out and the community team are
like professionals that are know exactly
how to like talk to the community or
should at least and and so I assume it
it must have been kind of this weird
thing where you're almost like this
rising celebrity yeah and they're like
how much do we want to let this guy like
go out there and speak for the company
versus how much speaking on his behalf
I assume that must have been kind of
difficult for them and for you to sort
of navigate oh it totally was and it was
like one of the things I really love
about riot is that we have so many
voices out there that players don't just
I had the opposite problem at Blizzard
where it was just me and I was not in
charge of the wild development team I
was looking a pretty small part of the
game but all the blame and all the
credit for anything landed on my shoes
which felt really weird because there's
a team of a couple hundred people while
working on the game but it was all just
Ghostcrawler which may be uncomfortable
and like I said I like that now even
though you know whatever everything
that's wrong in league is my fault but
there's a lot of other writers out there
so the players kind of know that like Oh
different people work in different parts
of the game and no one person kind of
designs it all on their own I mean
people know certainly tee is the guy
ruining all his champions are making
over preference so at least there's some
somewhat why why do this in the first
place right because you're wading into I
remember this forums they were filled
with trolls and angry people and people
memeing why wade into the masses when
this isn't like in your job description
and potentially seems like it created
sometimes maybe conflicts within the
company I mean there were two reasons
the first one was I remembered what it
was like being on the other side and
like
I don't understand what the developers
are thinking like should I abandon my
warrior because now paladin's are better
tanks like I don't know if Blizzard
intended for paladins many better tanks
or if they're gonna fix it soon and
particularly on an MMO you know you make
such an investment in that character
that you you just want to know what
they're thinking if they say look this
isn't the intention and we'll fix it
eventually that gives you oh and so I
want to give hope to players who just
didn't know what what our goals were but
also just selfishly it was a really easy
way to validate your ideas or just to
back I remember it was on Age of Empires
when we were arguing about hey is this
civilization you know too powerful or
whatever and I said why don't we just
ask about the forums and say hey what do
you guys think and that was such a
random thought at the time there's a lot
of fear that oh well you know we'll let
our guard down they'll realize that we
really don't know what we're doing if we
ask for help we have to be like on high
saying we know all and you're you know
you're down and the masses and I hated
that attitude of like we're somehow
smarter better special than you I wanted
to just be look we're just like you we
love games we want to make this game
better you know help us do that yeah was
there any point in time where you wanted
to take a step away from the forums
because people were just too intense I
mean like the hate threads that people
can get when they put themselves out on
the Internet and especially when you're
making changes like somebody might be
spending 40 hours a week plus playing
their rogue and now they feel like
you've ruined that that character even
if it wasn't your decision you've become
like the avatar yes they go on the
forums and just immediately spew stuff
like that must be overwhelming at some
point sometime earlier on when I was
less experienced at this like players
could get to me they would say something
would find the right way to be hateful
and I would take it hard that doesn't
happen anymore it's gonna be virtually
impossible at this point for someone to
get me riled up on that but I still felt
like you know shutting off the
conversation is the wrong answer like I
at that point I had made my bed like I
had opened up this channel and I needed
to still keep the communication lines
open or I was just you know it's it's
really cruel to like tempt players into
this conversation and then shut it off
just because
started to be uncomfortable for me sure
and I you know I I say this with a grain
of salt I feel like I'm inviting
something here despite all of this I
have never been targeted the way so many
people get target on the internet these
days like there's a couple of stupid
death threats and stuff like that that I
didn't take super seriously but for the
most part you know as angry as players
got they've never really tried to take
it out on me more than just internet
insults yeah and I'm very grateful for
that I'm not it should get challenged
anyone please years ago I was visiting
the riot campus and I saw you walking
around with one of the producers or
somebody I forget who and I was like oh
that's so funny Ghostcrawler
is walking around riot and then within a
couple of days it got announced that you
were leaving blizzard and joining riot
and I thought that was really funny
I was like oh wow I saw that and that
was such an interesting moment for me
because you you had built such a persona
for yourself a blizzard and I had I
identified you as being this Blizzard
guy and to come to riot which both great
companies but like has a very different
feel and like I know the names over here
I felt it felt crazy yeah all of what I
described must have been very small and
minor compared to sort of like the
decisions that you had to go through and
the experience you had in and trying and
deciding whether or not you were going
to do this and why to do it all and
stuff so what what was really behind
that whole move so it's a couple of
things one was I had been doing world
Warcraft for six years and that is a
game that never ends like it was always
gonna be next expansion what do we do
and then at the time the kind of company
decision was we have to really minimize
the change we make because it it's
making it harder for people to come back
to the game really worried about
returning players and then being able to
keep up with all the class changes and I
understood that as a business decision I
didn't agree with it but I you know I
didn't question it as a sane decision
but it wasn't very fun for me as a
developer because it was gonna mean all
these problems with the classes that I'd
wanted to fix for years we're gonna be
really hard to fix in this environment
so
you know like a mother mae-eye situation
for everything we want to do so I was
like starting already to think about
what should I do next is it a blizzard
is it somewhere else I wasn't really
looking to leave I mean it's a great
place and even to this day I would
recommend anyone blizzards a great place
to work I love that company the other
thing that happened is at some point
Blizzard started sending me to China as
like their China envoy and once I went a
couple times they kept asking me to come
back so is it China joy which I've never
been never been but it's malaria
gargantuan you know it's like five III
stuck together in the middle of Shanghai
in like July so it's super hot and super
humid a hundred thousand you know
Chinese gamers in these convention halls
and I was at the WoW booth on stage like
answering questions were just super cool
we had a huge audience and by huge I
mean there's probably 300 people in the
audience and I look across the hall and
there's a booth and I swear if I spend
like 5,000 people with this booth and
I'm like what is that game and someone
said oh that's League of Legends I'm
like with a dota clone like people still
play that I had played League when it
came out and kind of drifted off and
wasn't paying a ton of attention to it
anymore
and it had exploded and I'm like okay
they're doing something right this is
nothing you know yes there's a lot of
luck in this industry but there's
something special here I need to
understand what that is and I had met
Tom Cadwell who's my boss at a party or
something at some point so I knew him a
little bit and even remember because we
were sitting there drinking beers and
he's like asking me questions about
Hunter mechanics and I'm like I think
he's kind of interviewing me this is
this is super awkward
but anyway I just kind of cold called
Tom and I said look I'm really happy at
Blizzard I do not want to waste your
time but I want to understand what what
are you guys doing at riot that's so
special like why do you have so many
players why do people love this game so
much and so that led to a few dinners
and casual conversations and again at
that time I wasn't really thinking I'm
gonna leave but the magic that happened
and I think we still do a pretty good
job of that today when we interview
people is I was super impressed by the
people I talked to I'm like wow they
really have a plan and a philosophy and
they really know
what they want this company to be
everything down to like the way they
treated players is like hey the
developers aren't the VIPs here the
players of the VIPs I love that attitude
we're at Blizzard you know kind of where
the rockstars getting up on stage of
Blizzcon and to you know literally be
rocks yeah fog and and fireworks going
off and stuff like that and so the more
I talked to the people at riot the farm
like oh my god these there's something
special here and I met mark and Brandon
was super impressed by just the way they
thought about the company the way they
thought the kind of people they wanted
to attract like and they really had a
vision for like yeah we have one game
spoiler we still have one game yeah um
but they had a vision of where they want
the company to go and I I was like I
have to be a part of this you know I
really they they sold me on it and I
miss Blizzard I miss wow I miss my
friends they're terribly but for me this
was really the right decision I love
this company was it hard telling cuz
over six years you must have built a lot
of relationships at Blizzard and
Blizzard from the way I talked to the
guys over there it definitely feels like
they're a bit of a family and you had to
say like I'm moving yeah - Irvine to LA
basically - the enemy yeah yeah yeah
and so I I imagine that must have been
difficult for you to sort of navigate oh
it was really it was really hard you
know they felt betrayed
I think and to this day even though I
was nervous about asking for my twitter
handler back to this day they're super
cool like I'm really good friends with
you know Kaplan and and watcher and
Celeste Elan and those guys we still
hang out but they you know people don't
understand why I was going they thought
oh right just throwing a ton of money at
you or it was tough it was really it was
tough it was a hard decision even though
I said I wanted to be part of it I
agonized over it I took literally long
walks on the beach like what's my future
gonna be here you know curtain one or
curtain two yeah what what one of the
things that is interesting is I feel
like with with the previous stuff you've
worked on like wow you you have these
really big moments like an expansion
that hits and you can change everything
once he
you are pushing out so many updates that
stuff like that does happen where you
know suddenly mark all the marksmen are
writing because they feel like their
role isn't available and Peters going
out there develops going out there
saying stuff and other people are that
must be that is is there a chance for
that feels just like a lot like you
almost kind of wish that you had moments
of more downtime more calm for you to
think longer on these things oh yeah it
would be awesome if our patch notes were
like one bullet every time because then
we could test that change and feel
really good about it but there's so many
things that need to be improved of the
game there's so many bugs there's so
many you know old champions this is not
unique to League of Legends just
software development where there's
always things you want to make better
and so we feel like we're doing players
a disservice if we sit on things for too
long you know for every like oh my god
these last three patches were so crazy
there's players saying hey mordekaiser
has been bugged for like 10 12 40 passes
why don't you guys get around to this
has there been a time it right where you
felt like a sense of defeat or
frustration or like a big messed up or
you you it just sat with you for a while
I mean every day we do a little of that
I think the worst the worst attack
remember recently was the dynamic queue
where we thought we were doing something
really awesome for the game we heard the
feedback but we're we're you know we
thought okay they're gonna say this but
then once they see it they're gonna like
it and we just really lost the trust of
a lot of players through that there was
at the time I think you guys touted
numbers that were trying to show that
like this was a better system in some
ways right now I feel like like riot I
know looks at all data frequently and
uses that to inform but then you have
situations where you're looking at
reddit which is a small and hardcore
section of your population or equal you
know similar communities like that in
other regions and how do you balance
those moments where like the data is
telling you this is great but other like
these player bases are writing and being
frustrated you know I mean we're
in this for the long term and one of the
you know I don't want to make it
something like trust as a currency that
you accrue and spend but one of the
things that's allowed us to keep making
the game is that players trust that if
we screw something up which we do all
the time that we'll fix it and they they
have faith they don't give up they don't
say well I'm done with some of them do
but generally they don't say I'm done
with this game because I don't think
rights ever gonna get it right and so
when you blow trust too much you run the
risk that they're like okay I don't know
if they're gonna fix this I don't know
if they still care about me if they're
still listening and I feel like that was
an example there's been others that was
a big one
we're you know we're curling a little
bit right now with this whole per
position MMR thing where I feel like if
we're not careful we could be in a
similar case where the data is on our
side but the perception is not and
player perception is still really
important to us you know we we care a
lot about players feeling like we care
about them yeah what motivates you to
work long hours and grind down on these
things and deal with community
frustration and all that stuff like what
really gets you excited about this job
um I mean you're touching the lives of a
lot of people and when we do something
half-assed or we make a mistake and
someone who is waiting all day to get
home and play League of Legends I can't
play and usually they can play but it's
just a you know a suboptimal experience
you know we've let them down like this
is really important to their lives this
is their you know primary form of
entertainment or sometimes I'll talk to
players particularly in you know in a
shall we say Asian countries who will
say like I don't play this because it's
fun I play it for the prestige I play it
because I feel like I can be someone
when I climb the ladder it's really
important to them and it's kind of not
fair for us to take that away from them
through you know just being bad at our
jobs or making dumb mistakes one of the
interesting things I mentioned or you
mentioned was that when you were working
on WoW wows like this ever evolving game
you can be on it it's never going to end
yeah League of Legends very similar
situation right for you
is there is there a situation where
you're going to end up with fatigue
there and try to figure out something
else or like how is there a difference
here with league because it maybe it
releases more often like what how how
does the situation happen with Wow how
does that reflect what could happen with
you and League Wow at the time when I
started to feel that fatigue felt like
it had was in its mature period like it
had gone through the period of like
rapid evolution and now we you know
meaning the the dev team kind of
understood what the game was and you
could look out in the future and say
okay I kind of know what expansion 10 is
gonna feel like League to me still feel
super wide open I feel like even though
the games coming up on ten years that
there's still so much we want to do
there's so many huge opportunities you
know there's still very few ways to
experience the game for a lot of players
it's so low ranked SR with probably like
one or two champions so there's a lot we
can do there's a lot of the game that is
just kind of not up to 2018 standards
with a lot of crazy ideas or just trying
to figure out the right way to do and so
when I look out five or ten years I'm
like yeah there's gonna be crazy stuff
that I can't even imagine now and it's
gonna be really fun to look back on and
say remember when the game didn't even
have this feature and now it's so so
important you probably get this question
a lot but do you have any advice for
people who want to get into the games
industry working game design I can yeah
the best advice I always give is you
should try to make something if you
aren't a technical person and unity
scares you you know make a board game or
make a card game if you don't enjoy
figuring out the rules to a card game
you're not going to enjoy figuring out
the rules to you know a Skyrim or a doom
playing games and loving games is really
different from designing games because
you have to think about the game in a
lot you know in in really different ways
there was an example on the internet the
other day of imagine the interaction
between the player and a merchant who's
selling you a weapon in the game like
can you refund the item do different
merchants sell things for different
prices do different merchants have
different
notorious did inventories change over
time like you have to answer all of
these questions that's really fun for
some people it's fun for nerds like me
other players be like that's that's not
the interesting part to me I just want
to make a cool weapon or something so
it's a different it's a different skill
set you can't be a good game designer
unless you really love games but you
could certainly love games and hate
designing them so make things make
things make whatever you can if you
can't you know make a mod for a game
that you love make a get out the editor
and make a level for a game that you
love I think that's the best advice when
I applied to ensemble I submitted like
Dungeons & Dragons adventures I had
written because that was like the only
way I could show that like look I I can
follow something to completion I can
make the hard calls at the end to cut
things that I love just because I want
to get it done
I can play test things and react to the
feedback I can kind of have a series of
goals and follow through the steps I
need to meet those goals at the end of
the day you're making a product as gross
as it is to talk about games and that
really business standpoint so you have
to think about the entire package of
like what does it look like when you
finally ship something how are you gonna
patch it what what are even trying to
realize by making this thing so by
making anything it kind of helps you go
through that process and then a final
question here is there anything that
League of Legends fans or or people who
are interested in sort of like the the
state of the game and the future of it
all and stuff anything that you would
say to any of those folks that maybe
they don't know yeah yeah I think from
the outside it can be really hard for
players to fathom the machinery it takes
to make a game this large like I think
sometimes they imagine 10 dudes sitting
around a table arguing about whether to
buff eight rocks or not but the
development team and riot is a gigantic
company it takes a lot of moving pieces
you have the team that is just making
sure the servers are up in Singapore at
any given hour of the day you have the
teams that are making sure that when we
localize something that it fits in
Korean because Korean characters end up
being taller than characters in you know
a lot of other languages understanding
that the PC bong
business model is super different than
they like I buy RP and you know buy
skins with that model and so it's never
that like someone has a bad day playing
a champion it comes in the next day and
demands they be nerfed it's like it's a
large company working on something you
know and you look when you see a movie
at the end of the movie you watch these
credits and it scrolls through forever
and ever and ever and you're like wow it
took 16 people to render Iron Man's
armor that's insane or look at all the
people that were just like buying food
for for everyone else working on the
product we don't make credits for League
of Legends because it's not you know
it's not a game that has a beginning and
end there's no really a opportunity to
run the credits so I think it's easy for
people to forget just how many humans it
takes to make this thing go and how you
know even if someone like me had a dark
vision for the game how impossible it
would be to to make that happen with
with so many other people that kind of
act as a sense of checks and balances on
stupid ideas I do the next time I
interview you I will ask what your dark
vision for legalisms would be if you had
if you had to have one it would be good
that'll be fun to think about thank you
so much Greg for sitting down with me
today it's super fastening I loved
hearing sort of about your path and your
insight into League awesome anytime
you